Where would you eat? Our favorite places, I guess,
were, there were about three. There was a, what was
it called down at the, they called it at the
Triangle. There was a drive-in kind of restaurant
down there. We used to go down there quite a bit. I
forget the name of it. There was a place that served
huge cheap steaks and catfish out there on the
Brazos River near the air base. We'd go across to
North Gate, and I forget the name of the restaurant
where they served those greasy hamburgers. Was
Colonel Ed's Hard Liquor still going? Not that I
remember. Down in Welborn? A little earlier, that
was a place to go get beer. I don't remember that.
Was Whiskey Bridge a place where people went in
your era? Go straight toward Snook and
immediately across the river could buy whiskey?
Never remember that. Maybe they did. I didn't. Was
beer available? during your era in Brazos County?
You know, I guess I never drank any beer. Never had
the money to drink it. I mean, when we went on a beer
bus and they'd have a keg, I'd drink it because it
was free. Do you remember many times an Aggie being
brought back to the campus pretty well drunk? Did
that happen very often? Oh, it happened, but not
very often. of laugh about it take him in the shower
and dump him in there did anybody in your memory get
caught on an inspection having something illegal
in their room never remember that at all but there
were some people probably that had some some
alcohol hidden i guess but i don't ever recall it
happening um back to uh to athletics what are some
of your favorite athletic memories of that era The
first Texas game when Buddy Schaefer, who
preceded me at Austin High School, played
football here, caught the winning pass in 51
against Texas. That was Bob Smith's senior year.
Bob got, what's his name, gave him the four-inch
shiver on the kickoff, Kyle Field, and put him out
for the game. We still won.
We beat Oklahoma that year, I think it was.
When Brian beat Texas, I guess, in Austin and sent
Ed Price packing, who was the coach over there.
That was in 56, I guess, when I was in graduate
school. We didn't have, obviously, very good
football teams, but it was always exciting. And
how were the athletes, as far as you knew, how were
they treated? They weren't treated hardly any
different. They were over at the companion
building at Hart Hall, which was the same
structure as Walton. And I, because Dolla Hyde
lived over there. And I went over there, and we had a
few of them that were married that lived in those
married Quonset hut things down on South Gate, but
most of them lived there in Hart. As far as you knew,
did they take the same courses that others took?
Were there any Crip courses just for athletes? I
think they took the same courses, as far as I know,
that the other students in their discipline took.
That's what I mean. Now, they might have taken
Ag-Eco, but they took whatever.
Did you by chance know Bobby Drake Keith? We know
Keith real well. See, he got a double major in
petroleum engineering and geology in four years.
Gene Stallings got his degree in four years. They
got there about the time Gene was a freshman.
He and Drake were there when Bryant got there, one
year. That's right. They got out in 57. I think
you're right. So they got there in 53. I believe so.
In your day, what did the typical Aggie student
think about Yale leaders? Was it a big deal to be a
Yale leader? I think so, yeah.
I think that was one of the more important
positions on the campus. I don't think anybody
thought too much about class president or
anything like that. What was the highest prestige
student position? Corps commander? Yeah, by far.
Was there even a student body president then? Yes,
there was. Oh, there was? Okay. And class
president, but that didn't matter much, did it? I
mean, if we had one, I didn't know who he was. Was
there much attention to student government? You
know, for those that were kind of involved in it,
I'm sure there was. But the body was the Corps. The
Corps commander was more important than the rest
of it. And I think there was the first stirrings
maybe of, well there's something more to Texas A&M
than the Corps. There was some people, I'm trying
to remember the name of that guy in our class who
was, ended up as editor of the battalion. And he
kind of stirred some things up. That's not at all
unusual for student editors. Were there any
national or international events during your
student days that you remember where you were when
you heard the news?
I can't think of any during that time. The first
thing was after I left. Because like I had just, the
Kennedy assassination, I had just finished an 11
to 12 o'clock class in Nagel and I went into the
office to get one of my friends and I said, come on,
let's hurry to the MSC and beat the crowd. I said,
you can listen to the radio later. And he said,
listen. And the first words I heard were Walter
Cronkite saying, I've just been handed a
bulletin. President Kennedy is dead. And then for
the folks a little older than you and I, many of them
when they heard the Pearl Harbor news were at Guyon
Hall for the matinee and they interrupted it. And
they went running back to their dorm, and all of
them said immediately we knew. They were going.
They were going. All right, now let's see. When you
were there, Korea was over. Over. I was between the
two wars, so to speak. We had to go in. And I had, I was
in the Air Force. You had to pass the Air Force
fiscal. And a lot of my classmates, like George G.
Singh, couldn't pass it, the flight fiscal. So
that weeded out on the Air Force side. In fact, that
was a big controversy, kind of, because so many of
them had completed two years at A&M. And then the
Air Force, because they had that terrible surplus
of pilots that they'd recalled for the Korean War
and didn't want to really bust them out a second
time. They'd taken them out of a career. So they
ended up with too many people, and they were trying
to get rid of new people coming in, they had a budget
problem. So the students like George said, look,
I've completed two years here, now you tell me that
I can't stay here, it's a military school, but I
can't stay. So I want to transfer to the Army side,
move over to the Army. And the Army had a budget
problem, and they wouldn't let them move over
there, and that caused some hard feelings. Did you
Air Force ROTC members think that y'all were a
little smarter than the Army? Did y'all think the
Air Force a little more? Oh, well, you know, that
went on forever. That's right. You know, why walk
to where you're going when you can ride? Were there
any competitions? I don't know how we didn't get
killed. Down in those steam tunnels? How long
before you learned about steam tunnels? Well,
there weren't steam tunnels until we moved over
that I knew of until we got to what was called the new
area when I was a sophomore. And, you know, are you
sophomores going to let those guys, those ground
pounders over there get away with this? So out we'd
go down the steam tunnels, taking the caps off the
toilets in the middle of the night, putting those
bombs over there. Oh, I mean. How far? As far as you
know, how far did the steam tunnels extend on the
campus? I don't know. It was always pitch black
when I was in them, so I never... And in terms of
dimension, the steam tunnel was about how big? Six
feet, something like that. Six feet wide, maybe
seven feet. And were they bricked or were they
sealed?
Well, they were sealed. I mean, I guess they were
bricked. And what lines ran in them? Well, the
steam lines for the radiators in all of our rooms,
and I assume the telephone and whatever else. I
guess it was a utility tunnel. All the utility. And
where, say, from your dorm, where was the easiest
place to enter the steam tunnel?
Where did you get in? I think it was out there behind
the dorm. Over in the new dorm area? Yeah. And
wasn't it locked? No. There was a ladder going down
there. Okay. You know, it's amazing what you
forget.
Then you go, you knew how to get there. Somebody
showed you how to get over to the other side. Then
you come out. Because I think they ran literally
almost all over the campus. I'm sure they did,
because when you mention that, I remember the
steam tunnel that was between the old Y and the new,
they built a brand new administration building
where Harrington moved into, there across from
the drill field, that little street.
Now, do you remember anybody ever getting hurt in
the steam tunnel? Fallen. missing the ladder and
going whomp in the bottom, breaking their arm.
Now, you did carry a flashlight, didn't you? Oh,
yeah. Okay. Okay.
I mean...
One of my classmates in electrical engineering
was Joe Bickley, who graduated from El Paso High.
The Bickleys were big cotton farmers up in Canyon
Tia. And that first, very first day, we were
sitting in that class, and I think it was... he
wasn't a Dr. Rose, Norman Rose, I think, right? Had
each one of us tell where we were from. And when he
got to Joe, Joe didn't say El Paso, of course,
Canyon T was up. He says, oh, I know what it was. He
didn't ask us to say it. He had the list of us and
where we were from. And he gets to Joe and he says,
Mr. Bickley from Canoodle, Texas, And Joe and I
look at each other, of course, those days you
didn't laugh or anything, and he says, sir, he
says, that's Cañatillo.
Cañatillo. Oh, okay. So a little later, somebody
asked, it wasn't Rose, but somebody said, y'all
still have Indians out there? Joe and I looked at
each other and said, man, we haven't gone east, but
they sure haven't gone west. Mm-hmm. At
A&M, in that era, what was the, what were the events
or traditions or whatever that pulled everybody
together so well? Well, I think it was, as I say, the
core and everything that it embodied, from let's
call it the metal hazing, from the strict regimen
that was imposed from 6 a.m. in the morning to
whatever it was, we all endured it.
I thought about this a lot in relation to what I've
done subsequently. I think A&M turns out some of
the best people in the world because of that
regimen. In many respects, we're very pragmatic,
but we never quit. That's one thing, we never, ever
quit.
We may not turn out as many artists or people of that
type. What we do is, that's why so many presidents
of oil companies, they're pragmatic, they're
hardworking.
I don't guess we've turned out a lot of
politicians, Perry and Sharp, but for the most
part,
As a politician, I think we had a very, very good
ethical.
You didn't lie, you didn't steal, and you didn't
cheat, period. And you went home if you did. And
that was ingrained. What were the events that
contributed most to, at A&M, that contributed
most to those attitudes? Well, as I say, the Corps.
But what else? I think the fact that A&M was
isolated had a lot to do with it because we didn't
get exposure to a lot of things that other students
got exposed to, good or bad, it molded our
character.
I think the faculty had a lot to do with it. I think we
had a very conservative faculty. But things like
Yale practice and games.
Yale practice, final review, core trips. You took
care of each other. Silver taps? Silver taps. Do
you remember when you first went to a silver tap? My
freshman year. Hadn't been there probably in
October until somebody got killed in an
automobile accident. What was your feeling? I
didn't know at that time whoever it was. And in
fact, it wasn't a freshman. It was somebody else, I
recall. But it was a tremendously moving
experience. I had never been involved in anything
like that. Did everybody take it seriously? Oh,
yes. And I think as a freshman, if I recall, I said,
in the middle of the night, I'm getting drug out to
go to this thing in the world. And then after that
you realized that was part of this bonding. And a
lot of people don't understand that. And I
understand that too. Final review. I thought the
Ross Volunteers did a lot of that. I thought that
building the bonfire did a lot of that.
Just having to march to every meal did a lot of that.
So
after your sophomore year, you came back home,
worked. What about after, when did you go to summer
camp the first time? Well, we went between our
junior and senior years. So at the end of my junior
year, I went out to summer camp. Where? March Air
Force Base. Joe Walker, who was head of Centex, was
in my class. He and Dale Fisher, I don't know where
Dale is, but Joe and I stay in contact. And the three
of us, Joe picked up one of these cars where you
drive. In those days they may still do it. They want
a car moved from here to there. And he got one in
Dallas, came out here and picked Dale and I up and we
went this March. And how did you Aggies, how did
summer, that summer camp go? and we had a blast. Did
you all think you were well prepared? Oh yeah,
yeah. Did any of the others look with any kind of
special way upon you Aggies? I think they kind of
said, you know, you're taking this military a
little too far. And did that summer camp
experience have any effect on you the next year?
Well, then I came back home and got married. Okay.
But I always thought the summer camp was a great
experience. And it helped me, I thought, the three
years that I was in the Air Force. Right, so then you
and your wife moved to Bryan College Station. We
moved. And where did you find a place to live? Well,
old man Lauderstein had a terrible, rickety, old
two-story house that he converted into four
apartments there at Northgate. It's been torn
down. It's about two blocks. Remember what the
rent was? I think it was $30 a month. And what kind of
furniture did y'all take? This was furnished. It
was the worst stuff you ever seen. And I had a deal
with him that he had three or four right there. And I
had a deal that I'd keep them repaired. And he paid
me 50 cents an hour. And they all set up on whatever.
And we had a freeze. And the pipes froze and broke.
And I'm in there that afternoon, right at
freezing, mud on my back, putting in new sections
of pipe. But then the next year, while I was in
graduate school, as I said, Chris Gronemann built
those new little duplexes. They're kind of
dog-eared now. I saw them a couple of months ago,
but we moved over there. And your wife got a job with
Brian? She originally, that was the first year of
Gilmer Aiken. And she originally couldn't get a
job. They didn't have any openings in Bryan. So she
got a job teaching in Snook. And when we arrived
about the 20th of August,
they had sent a letter out to El Paso from Bryan
saying, we've got an opening. So we got the letter.
And she called SNCC and said, I'm not coming, and
went to work with Brian. And do you remember what
her pay was? Well, Gilmore-Aitken was $2,815 a
year. And I had a fellowship
in graduate school over with the
calculator lab, the thing that we did the utility
studies for all the utilities up there. What's his
name? What was the professor that ran that? He
talked. Anyway, and so I had a fellowship, and we
did load studies for all the utilities. I got to
know all of them in those days. Before we quit,
let's go back for you as a senior. When did you get
your senior ring? You know, I don't wear either one
because I played golf, and they started cutting my
hands. So about 20 years ago, I had to take them off,
and I tried to give mine to my son. But anyway, I got
it.
You know, was it somewhere around Christmas
maybe? And how much did it cost, do you remember?
Where'd you get the money?
Well, you had to pay for it, I think, what, in May
before you left school? I think that's right. Your
junior
year. And was it, was it 50 bucks? Something like
that. I think that's what it was. How did you feel
when you put it on? Oh, I thought it was, I mean, I
made it. And I had saved the money. I guess I, when I
worked, I'd saved the money. I'd paid for it. You
know, those things, I don't know, they've got to be
worth a fortune. I've got it in the lockbox. Do you
have any ring stories where something unusual
happened or somebody saw it or you lost it? I never
lost it, but people would see it, especially if you
were a couple times in New York City or in the Air
Force. Of course, there's a lot of Aggies, of
course, who were in the military in those days.
Then you bought your senior boots? I never had
senior boots.
Of course, I was married, and I went in the day
ducks. Oh, so you didn't have to have senior boots.
Well, yeah, a lot of them did, but being married,
and that was big money, I just didn't have any. So
you didn't go through final review your fourth
year? Oh, I did. Oh, you did? It was a day duck. Oh, it
was a day duck, okay. How did you feel at final
review and commencement? I don't remember much
about final review at that point. Obviously, of
course, being married, I said I made it. I've done
what I set out to do. And I think that was a
tremendous sense of accomplishment. And I'll
tell you this. That day is the day you feel like you
owe Texas A&M a tremendous debt of gratitude. Why?
uh just because because you know there's a lot of
people that had opportunity that didn't accept
take it of course i knew i was going on to graduate
school which made it a little different it wasn't
like a final closure at that point do you remember
who the commencement speaker was no i don't almost
none of us do but what feeling did you have i
remember my graduate school graduation more than
i remember my when you got that diploma? I remember
Harrington handing it to me. And was it special to
have your name called and your loved ones there?
That's right. Let's quit at that point. See, I
think that's one of the very essential things that
they must, must, must continue. Yes, now they're
having four commencements because there's so
many names, but they're still calling every name
and still shaking every hand.
that stage, and they look absolutely wonderful. I
guess, if you could see their face. Sure. Through
the annuals, there was pictures. Oh. Sammy Kay,
Tex Spinnicky, Ray Anthony, a bunch of them. Oh,
that's good. Now, did you go to many of those
dances? No, I don't remember. I never had the
money. I don't think I went to a dance. For spending
money, once you settled in, what did you do for
money? Well, I got $5 a week. I had to buy haircuts,
pay for any excess laundry, whatever. But then I
tried to work. Where? Well, because I was taking so
many hours, I couldn't take, so I had to be a little,
I sold Reader's Digest subscriptions. I put up TV
antennas, I told you about that. I worked for old
man Lauterstein repairing his apartments.
things that i could set my own hours and uh you went
up to to denton about how often to visit that
special young lady well about once a month you
could go up there i could go i'm just amazed that i
got thinking about that for a dollar or two i'd i'd
hitchhike when you got up there they had an old
clapboard house on campus with bunk bear cots in it
for the aggies You could stay there for, you got a
towel and a bar of soap for 25 cents a night. I could
eat over in their dining hall, and then I, or we'd go
out, she had put up half the money, my wife did, and
we'd go to some, you know, fast food, whatever, the
pig stand or whatever it was, and then you'd
hitchhike back home. Did you go to a dance up there
quite often? No, I may have gone to one up there.
Were there many Aggie-Tessie couples? Yeah, lots
of them. The place was swarming with Aggies on the
weekend. And then when they came down to the
campus. They came on either the train or the bus.
They chartered a lot of buses. And at the dances,
how were all the young ladies treated at Aggie
dances? Oh, I think they were just treated
magnificently. I think Aggies treated their
dates quite well. I don't think they spent a lot of
money on them. And at A&M dances, was there heavy
drinking? Well, I don't think so, but I was never
there. I've not heard of any. I don't think so. I
don't think anybody ever thought about doing
something like that. In your student era, did
Aggies smoke? Mm-hmm. And what were they smoking?
Oh, I'm sure what everybody else, I guess, I didn't
smoke.
But I'm sure they, Lucky Strikes and Camels and Old
Gold and whatever. Were cigars at all? I think, no,
not as a practice. I think some guys would get a
cigar and smoke it, but I don't think anybody that I
knew could ever afford to buy a cigar. Did you and
your buddies even know the words related to drugs?
No, never heard of them. And see, today's
youngsters can't believe that. Well, I don't
think anybody. Maybe there were somewhere else,
maybe in big cities, but I mean, we never heard the
word marijuana. Did Aggies play cards sometimes,
poker? They played poker and moon. Sometimes for
money. Yeah, a little, but I never saw any, very,
very rarely. Now, for you, how was it different to
be a sophomore than it was to be a freshman? Well,
besides having the pressure of somebody on you all
the time and having all the extracurricular stuff
that they made you do, which made you relax a little
more, you also realized, well, you were going to be
there unless you flunked out for the duration. And
therefore, you were more at home with the
university and the life of the university, which
meant that you functioned better. Now, you were in
the same outfit as the sophomore? Well, we had
freshman outfits. Oh, that's right. And then you
went to the new area, and it was squadron 14. What
was different about eating in Duncan compared to
Sevesa? The food was the same. Not much, other than
you weren't a freshman.
Do you remember some good dining hall pranks or
jokes? Well,
I can't remember. The only thing I can remember is
stealing the pie.
You know, you didn't get cush when you were a
freshman. And I forget who it was, just went by the
table
and stole, there was always, you got two pies, I
think it was, and took one of them. I mean, you know,
the upperclassmen just went crazy. Oh you know the
old the old stuff about you had to get up on sit on the
back of your chair and the air raid drill and that
kind of stuff but that had gone on for years. Other
than that I don't remember a lot about it. Now did
you were you ever subjected to cush questions? Oh
yeah yeah. Now as a sophomore did you ever use the
paddle on anybody? I as I told you I had never other
than when I was in the RVs nor did I ever use it. RVs.
We may have done this the other day, but I want to be
sure. Did you apply? No, no. We went through that. I
don't know how. I don't know what the process,
selection process was. One day they called me over
to some kind of meeting and said, you've been
selected to be a member of the RVs. Did you all have
to buy your uniforms, or were they provided? No, I
think we bought our uniforms. And how proud did you
feel when you put it on? Oh, I thought that was the
greatest thing in the world. And what were some of
the ceremonies? You remember RVs.